README.md, before:

# BOOSTNANO
## BOOSTNANO is a tool for preprocessing ONT-Nanopore RNA sequencing reads(before basecalling), it segmentates the adapter, polyA stall and the transcription from the raw signal.

BoostNano is part of the [Chiron](https://github.com/haotianteng/Chiron) project, if you found BoostNano useful please consider to cite the Chiron paper:
> Haotian Teng, Minh Duc Cao, Michael B Hall, Tania Duarte, Sheng Wang, Lachlan J M Coin; Chiron: translating nanopore raw signal directly into nucleotide sequence using deep learning, GigaScience, Volume 7, Issue 5, 1 May 2018, giy037, https://doi.org/10.1093/gigascience/giy037

## Installation
```python
git clone https://github.com/haotianteng/BoostNano.git  
conda activate YOUR_VIRTUAL_ENVIRONMENT
python BoostNano/setup.py install  
```
Install [Pytorch](https://pytorch.org/)  

## Code Example
Check out the sample code in the Jupyter Notebook Sample.ipynb for how to use the package.  

## Usage
### Inference
```python
python boostnano_eval.py -i INPUT_FAST5_FOLDER -o OUTPUT_FOLDER -m MODEL_FOLDER
```
*Replace the raw signal in the fast5 files for basecalling:*
```python
python boostnano_eval.py -i INPUT_FAST5_FOLDER -o OUTPUT_FOLDER -m MODEL_FOLDER --replace
```
*Notice*: This will save the segmented siganl in to the original Signal Slot in the fast5 files, and copy the old signal into the Signal_Old slot, so a basecaller can directly run on the processed fast5 files.

### Label&Training
```python
python hand_label.py
```
Which give you a GUI to label the data.  
GUI operation:  
S - start  
X - skip the current read  
Q - quit and save  
R - enter into review mode, review the label result or running result by Nanopre  
    reverse the signal(if already in review mode)  

D - go to next signal in review mode  
left click - mark a segment  

Once you get enough labelled data, use boostnano_train.py to train.  

### Review
To review the segmentation result, run hand_label.py and enter in to the review mode, and choose the output folder to review the result.  
![A sample segmentation](./sample_data/sample.png)

Commit message:

Move the location of model into the  package

README.md, after:

# BOOSTNANO
## BOOSTNANO is a tool for preprocessing ONT-Nanopore RNA sequencing reads(before basecalling), it segmentates the adapter, polyA stall and the transcription from the raw signal.

BoostNano is part of the [Chiron](https://github.com/haotianteng/Chiron) project, if you found BoostNano useful please consider to cite the Chiron paper:
> Haotian Teng, Minh Duc Cao, Michael B Hall, Tania Duarte, Sheng Wang, Lachlan J M Coin; Chiron: translating nanopore raw signal directly into nucleotide sequence using deep learning, GigaScience, Volume 7, Issue 5, 1 May 2018, giy037, https://doi.org/10.1093/gigascience/giy037

## Installation
```python
git clone https://github.com/haotianteng/BoostNano.git  
conda activate YOUR_VIRTUAL_ENVIRONMENT
python BoostNano/setup.py install  
```
Install [Pytorch](https://pytorch.org/)  

## Code Example
Check out the sample code in the Jupyter Notebook Sample.ipynb for how to use the package.  

## Usage
### Inference
```python
python boostnano_eval.py -i INPUT_FAST5_FOLDER -o OUTPUT_FOLDER -m MODEL_FOLDER
```
*Replace the raw signal in the fast5 files for basecalling:*
```python
python boostnano_eval.py -i INPUT_FAST5_FOLDER -o OUTPUT_FOLDER -m MODEL_FOLDER --replace
```
A pretrained model is already shipped in boostnan/models, you can use it directly.
*Notice*: This will save the segmented siganl in to the original Signal Slot in the fast5 files, and copy the old signal into the Signal_Old slot, so a basecaller can directly run on the processed fast5 files.

### Label&Training
```python
python hand_label.py
```
Which give you a GUI to label the data.  
GUI operation:  
S - start  
X - skip the current read  
Q - quit and save  
R - enter into review mode, review the label result or running result by Nanopre  
    reverse the signal(if already in review mode)  

D - go to next signal in review mode  
left click - mark a segment  

Once you get enough labelled data, use boostnano_train.py to train.  

### Review
To review the segmentation result, run hand_label.py and enter in to the review mode, and choose the output folder to review the result.  
![A sample segmentation](./sample_data/sample.png)
